h2(Installation). Installation

h3. Requirements

SBuild requires an working Java 6 Runtime. All other dependencies are bundled within the SBuild distribution ZIP file.

h3. Download

You can download the latest stable SBuild distribution from the "download page":http://sbuild.tototec.de/sbuild/projects/sbuild/files. To download SBuild 0.3.2, select "sbuild-0.3.2-dist.zip":http://sbuild.tototec.de/sbuild/attachments/download/53/sbuild-0.3.2-dist.zip.

h3. Installation 

SBuild runs under all major operating systems, that have a Java 6 Runtime environment.

h4. Linux

You should check, if your Linux distribution provides ready to install packages for SBuild, if so, you may want to install them in the specific way of your Linux distribution. For Gentoo Linux, you can find an "ebuild for SBuild":https://lepetitfou.dyndns.org/svn/gentoo/lefous_portage_overlay/dev-java/sbuild-bin/ in "lefous portage overlay":http://lepetitfou.dyndns.org/redmine/projects/lefousportageoverlay.

If you used the installation procedure of you Linux distribution you were done here, else continue.

Unpack the ZIP file content into a directory of your choice, e.g. "/opt/sbuild-0.3.2".

Make sure, the expanded file "/opt/sbuild-0.3.2/bin/sbuild" is executable, e.g. with @chmod -x /opt/sbuid-0.3.2/bin/sbuild@ 

Add the binary directory (e.g. "/opt/sbuild-0.3.2/bin/") to your search path: @PATH=/opt/sbuild-0.3.2/bin:$PATH@


h4. Windows

Unpack the ZIP file content into an directory of your choice, e.g. "C:\Program Files\sbuild-0.3.2".

After unpacking, you should see the sub directories "bin", "lib" and "doc".

Add the environment variable @SBUILD_HOME@ with the value of that directory, e.g. @SBUILD_HOME=C:\Program Files\sbuild-0.3.2@

Add the path of the "bin" directory to the @PATH@ variable: @PATH=%SBUILD_HOME%\bin:%PATH%@

h5. Special Notes for Cygwin Users

If running sbuild under cygwin, you may see the following error message:

bc. 
$ sbuild all
java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: de/tototec/sbuild/runner/SBuildRunner
Caused by: java.lang.ClassNotFoundException: de.tototec.sbuild.runner.SBuildRunner
        at java.net.URLClassLoader$1.run(Unknown Source)
        at java.security.AccessController.doPrivileged(Native Method)
        at java.net.URLClassLoader.findClass(Unknown Source)
        at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClass(Unknown Source)
        at sun.misc.Launcher$AppClassLoader.loadClass(Unknown Source)
        at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClass(Unknown Source)
Could not find the main class: de.tototec.sbuild.runner.SBuildRunner.  Program will exit.
Exception in thread "main"

This is because cygwin does not execute the @sbuild.bat@ file but the @sbuild@ shell script. You may either call @sbuild.bat@ directly, or delete the @PATH/bin/sbuild@ file.


h3. Check the installation

Open an new terminal window and execute the command: @sbuild --help@

You should see something like this:

bc.. 
SBuild 0.3.2 (c) 2011 - 2013, ToToTec GbR, Tobias Roeser

Usage: sbuild [options] [parameter]

Options:
  --additional-buildfile,-F FILE  Add an additional buildfile into scope.
  --buildfile,-f FILE             The buildfile to use (default: SBuild.scala).
  --clean                         Remove all generated output and caches. This
                                  will force a new compile of the buildfile.
                                  (This will not remove output generated by
                                  buildfiles.)
  --create-stub                   Create a new minimal SBuild.scala file to
                                  start with.
  --define,-D KEY=VALUE           Define or override properties. If VALUE is
                                  omitted it defaults to "true".
  --dependency-tree               Show dependency tree(s) and exit.
  --execution-plan                Show the execution plan and exit.
  --fsc                           Use the fast scala compiler (client/server)
  --help,-h                       Show this help screen.
  --list-targets,-l               Show a list of targets defined in the current
                                  buildfile
  --list-targets-recursive,-L     Show a list of targets defined in the current
                                  buildfile and all modules
  --no-fsc                        Do not try to use the fast scala compiler
                                  (client/server)
  -q,--quiet,--no-progress        Quiet mode. Don't show progress messages with
                                  progress in percent. (This will speed up
                                  SBuild initialization.)
  --verbose,-v                    Be verbose when running.
  --version                       Show SBuild version.

Parameter:
  TARGETS  The target(s) to execute (in order).
p. 


Congratulations, you have successfully finished your SBuild installation.

h3. Troubleshooting

If you went into trouble, you may want to search the "forum":https://sbuild.tototec.de/sbuild/projects/sbuild/boards or create a new thread. If you found a bug please "check, if there is already a ticket":https://sbuild.tototec.de/sbuild/projects/sbuild/issues for it or "create a new ticket":https://sbuild.tototec.de/sbuild/projects/sbuild/issues/new.

